unfortunately, I just use statistical clairvoyance... (I've decided it's impossible not to! (unless you can deal better-than-perfect concurrency? (superposition)))

like in ST:TNG poker, the dealer makes the call

dictionary:
	rounds go around so all the players get a turn; to play a round
	decks go through all the cards; to play a deck

chips:
	good (green)
	bad (red)

no chips:
	player keeps invalid cards
	fewer cards win
	no betting

DEAL

dealer calls:
	races: stacks must be black or red
	faces: stacks must be numerical or picturesque
	chars: stacks must be numbers or letters
	suits: stacks must be suited (♣ ♣ ♣ )
	kinds: stacks must be valued (🂣  🂳  🃓  🃃 )
	sides: stacks must be linked (1 A K A 1 2 1 2 3)
	...
	with/out side-effects: whether invalid cards stay, or get burned/collected (dealer call); if they stay, the state of the stack changes
	blinds; betting can only be divisible by unfolded players...no; just put overflow into the next round/pot
	wild cards must be stacked in the wild pile
	rounds, or decks; each dealer can choose when to swap dealers (they can't change their declaration; that would be dysfunctional)

dealer shuffles (keeping cards parallel to the table & below heart height):
	Hindu shuffle
	riffle shuffle
	Hindu shuffle
	riffle shuffle
	Hindu shuffle
	place deck face-down on the table

player on RHS of dealer:
	cut cards

dealer deals:
	complete the cut
	burn 1ˢᵗ card from the game (saves last card from being an obvious bet)
	turn one card face-up next to deck (1ˢᵗ stack & otherwise easiest bet)

player = dealer

PLAY

no deck:
	dealer = LHS of dealer (or LHS of player (or player))
	goto DEAL

small blind = LHS of player
big blind = LHS of LHS of player

player = small blind

no player:
	goto OVER

player:
	decide where to place next card from the deck
	place card face-down on a stack, or make a new stack
	premature turn-overs: EOT (End Of Turn) & blinds in the pot for the next turn c̄ big blind penalty paid to the small blind player & small blind penalty baid to all other players

all players (betting is poker-style):
	bet good chips if face-down card is valid for the stack
	bet bad chips if face-down card is invalid for the stack
	player is small blind & can only bet good chips, but their chips are worth double
	new stacks are only valid if the card could not be placed on another stack
	if valid, bad chips goto pot until invalid
	if invalid, good chips goto pot until valid
	...or maybe the other way around? I'll think about this when my brain starts working again & I remember about this...
	there needs to be a reason to fold, and that must be not losing to the other side
	so pessimists collect good chips, and optimists collect bad chips? probably

player:
	turn over placed card

players have no chips:
	ℂomplex psychics
	losers

goto PLAY

OVER

if player has all chips:
	ℝeal psychic
	winner

if player has all good chips:
	optimistic psychic
	winner if no pessimistic psychic, or draw

if player has all bad chips:
	pessimistic psychic
	winner if no optimistic psychic, or draw

if player has most chips:
	lucky psychic
	winner

...

there are always alternatives! (flat earth, dark matter, ETC)

calculus:
	infinitesimals replaced by limits replaced by _

functional programming:
	monads replaced by _

mathematics:
	ℂomplexity replaced by _
	...maths is a language, which can be (ab)used to explain/describe/ETC any"-thing"

...

choose the best & discriminate

minimise side-effects:
	loops vs recursion

maximise utility
	infix vs prefix (or even postfix; but it helps to know what you're doing, before you know what you're doing it with)

...

function composition = declarative ∵ partial application (∧ lazy evaluation? well I think about it that way, even if it's unnecessary)

symbolic programming is an alternative to error messages?

...

2 or more consecutive spaces = ASCII art (character-based bit-map)
tabular data = use appropriate data formats (DSV/CSV/ETC) & rendering warez
indentation = tabs

programming tools process each character; they could optimise, by tabbing spacial indentation, but you shouldn't treat it faithfully (like a religion)

use format strings, or more complex generative hacks, for consecutively strung spaces
